# Latest SQL Vulnerabilities

This time let's discuss a vulnerability that does not have a CVE and does not require a direct exploit. The previous section shows that we can get the NTLMv2 hashes by interacting with the MSSQL server. However, we should mention again that this attack is possible through a direct connection to the MSSQL server and vulnerable web applications. However, we will only focus on the simpler variant for the time being, namely the direct interaction.

---

# The Concept of the Attack

We will focus on the undocumented MSSQL server function called `xp_dirtree` for this vulnerability. This function is used to view the contents of a specific folder (local or remote). Furthermore, this function provides some additional parameters that can be specified. These include:
- The depth
- How far the function should go in the folder
- The actual target folder

---

# The Concept of Attacks

The interesting thing is that the MSSQL function `xp_dirtree` is not directly a vulnerability but takes advantage of the authentication mechanism of SMB.

When we try to access a shared folder on the network with a Windows host, this Windows host automatically sends an NTLMv2 hash for authentication.

This hash can be used in various ways against the MSSQL server and other hosts in the corporate network. This includes:
- SMB Relay attacks
- Cracking the NTLMv2 hash locally

An SMB Relay attack allows us to:
```text
Replay the authentication hash to log into another system
```

if the account has local administrator privileges there.

Successful cracking would allow us to:
```text
View and use the password in cleartext
```

A successful SMB Relay attack would grant us administrator rights on another host in the network, but not necessarily the originating host because Microsoft patched an older flaw that allowed SMB Relay attacks back to the same originating host.

However, we could:
- Gain local admin access on another host
- Dump additional credentials
- Re-use those credentials against the original MSSQL host

---

# Initiation of the Attack

| Step | XP_DIRTREE | Concept of Attacks - Category |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | The source here is the user input, which specifies the function and the folder shared in the network. | Source |
| 2 | The process should ensure that all contents of the specified folder are displayed to the user. | Process |
| 3 | The execution of system commands on the MSSQL server requires elevated privileges with which the service executes the commands. | Privileges |
| 4 | The SMB service is used as the destination to which the specified information is forwarded. | Destination |

This is when the cycle starts all over again, but this time to obtain the NTLMv2 hash of the MSSQL service user.

---

# Steal The Hash

| Step | Stealing the Hash | Concept of Attacks - Category |
|---|---|---|
| 5 | Here, the SMB service receives the information about the specified order through the previous process of the MSSQL service. | Source |
| 6 | The data is then processed, and the specified folder is queried for the contents. | Process |
| 7 | The associated authentication hash is used accordingly since the MSSQL running user queries the service. | Privileges |
| 8 | In this case, the destination for the authentication and query is the host we control and the shared folder on the network. | Destination |

Finally, the hash is intercepted by tools like:
- Responder
- WireShark
- TCPDump

The captured NTLMv2 hash can then be:
- Cracked offline
- Used for SMB Relay attacks
- Re-used for lateral movement

---

# Additional MSSQL Abuse Possibilities

Apart from this attack, there are many different ways to execute commands in MSSQL.

For example:
- Executing Python code through SQL queries
- Running system commands
- Leveraging extended stored procedures
- Abusing linked servers

We can find more information about these techniques in the official Microsoft documentation.

However, these advanced MSSQL attack techniques and abuse possibilities are discussed in other modules.
