# Skills Assessment

To complete the skills assessment, answer the questions below. You will need to apply a variety of skills learned in this module, including:

- Using whois  
- Analysing robots.txt  
- Performing subdomain bruteforcing  
- Crawling and analysing results  

Demonstrate your proficiency by effectively utilizing these techniques. Remember to add subdomains to your hosts file as you discover them.

---

## Question 1  
**What is the IANA ID of the registrar of the inlanefreight.com domain**

### Solution
This asks which registrar manages inlanefreight.com and what their official IANA ID is. Easy — run whois on the domain

```
whois inlanefreight.com
```

---

## Question 2  
**What HTTP server software is powering inlanefreight.htb on the target system?**

### Solution
We need the name of the HTTP server software (not the version). The quickest way is to fetch response headers with curl:

```
curl -i inlanefreight.htb:34677
curl -i inlanefreight.htb
```

At first the hostname didn’t resolve on my machine so did entry in /etc/hosts

```
94.237.57.211 inlane
```

**answer = nginx**

---

## Question 3  
**What is the API key in the hidden admin directory you discovered**

### Solution
First I checked robots.txt and sitemap.xml:

No useful results. I then tried directory bruteforcing with ffuf: After thinking it over, I suspected inlanefreight.htb might have subdomains we haven’t discovered yet, 

I bruteforced vhosts with gobuster:

```
gobuster vhost -u http://inlanefreight.htb:34677 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-110000.txt -t 500 --append-domain
```

This found a vhost: web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677. Next I checked robots.txt and sitemap.xml on that vhost:

```
curl -i web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677/robots.txt
```

Good find: robots.txt revealed an /admin_h1dd3n directory

```
curl -i web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677/admin_h1dd3n/
```

The response contained the API key.

---

## Question 4  
**After crawling the inlanefreight.htb domain, what email address did you find**

### solution
tried brute-forcing sub-vhosts for web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677

```
gobuster vhost -u http://web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677 -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-110000.txt -t 500 --append-domain
```

That revealed dev.web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677. I added it to /etc/hosts:

Then I ran ReconSpider on the dev vhost:

```
python3 ReconSpider.py http://dev.web1337.inlanefreight.htb:34677
cat results.json
```

The crawl returned an email address and other artifacts. results.json included:

---

## Question 5  
**What is the API key the inlanefreight.htb developers will be changing to?**

### Solution
We already found this in the earlier admin comment. The developer comment in the crawl shows the new API key:

```
ba988b835be4aa97d068941dc852ff33
```
